# Essential Guide to Decentralized Social on Chains &amp; Rollups

To date, the inspiration and motivation behind the scaling of L1/L2 chains have largely been rooted in DeFi’s desire to improve the speed and efficiency of transactions on Ethereum. As the ecosystem grows, we move away from a winner-takes-all narrative and closer to a reality where Dapps build out across multiple specialized blockchains, each tailored to a particular category of applications. While DeFi inspired the first wave of L1/L2 scaling and development, we see a great opportunity for Social Apps to move the ball further with a fresh set of challenges and the promise of bringing the next billion users to web3.

Web3 socials offer users key benefits over traditional web2 networks. The first is decentralization. Web3 socials are built on networks that are not controlled by any single entity or organization, which allows for greater user control and privacy and makes it much more difficult for governments or other organizations to censor or shut down the platform. The second is Data Ownership. In a Web3 social, users own their own data and also have the ability to monetize it through various token economies that incentivize users to contribute to the network. 

In web2 social networks, the platform is incentivized to maximize revenue and user engagement, but often at the expense of the user and their privacy. In web3 social networks, the platform and the user are incentivized to act in the best interest of the network, leading to a more positive user experience. Finally, decentralized social networks are can interact with other decentralized apps and services, creating a more open and interconnected ecosystem.

As web3 expands, users will continue to have experiences in both web2 and web3 social ecosystems. However, the one area where web3 socials are not yet able to compete with web2 is Personalization. Web3 socials have improved technical functionalities, but lack the depth of data and users necessary to provide the same level of personalization that web2 can. The reality is that web2 socials have an enormous head start in the data economy of personalization that web3 socials will spend an eternity trying to catch up with if they are not able to improve UX interoperability. The future of social apps lies in this opportunity to meet users where they are and marry the benefits of decentralized networks with the data economies of web2 in the form of decentralized personalization. 

In this research, we will examine the progress made so far in Social App development across several L1/L2 chains and how each one addresses the unique needs of Social Apps. To build and scale great social apps, chains should have robust storage and indexing capabilities, immutability, Sybil and censorship resistance, and a high degree of privacy and security for user data. With the promise of an interweb/ multi-chain future for users, interoperable data and ID management are a must. While we still have a long way to go, we will analyze what’s working so far and what are the potential elements necessary to build and scale a great social ecosystem in web3.
